# Introduction

Memre is a powerful technology platform that utilizes AI and ML to enhance learning effectiveness and retention. Although Memre can be used to build courses and manage the learning experience, we have also exposed a number of APIs that enable our customers and partners to integrate Memre technology into their own learning environments. For enterprise customers with learning portals, this enables them to improve learning for their employees or customer-learners. For partners, such as LMS and subscription-based learning solutions, Memre APIs allow them to provide competitive differentiation and an enhanced service (such as a “master” subscription level) which includes features from the Memre learning engine.

### Memre In Action: An Example Use Case

You run a website where users can subscribe to take courses about various software development concepts. You want to offer a new tier of membership that includes new features provided by the Memre engine. These new features include recommendations to the subscriber about their readiness to take a certain quiz, the best time of the day (based on past performance) to learn concepts for maximum retention, the difficulty of certain concepts, and detailed statistics about the user’s knowledge.

As an example, let's say you have an app that teaches users various software development concepts. At the end of each lesson the user is quizzed on the concepts they've learned. You can use the Memre API to help the user learn these concepts most effectively. You can also use the API to get various statistics about the user's knowledge. Additionally, you will be able to get various statistics about the concepts themselves (e.g. relative difficulty).

### How Does It Work?

All of the features described in that example are made possible through Memre APIs through which you pass information about the user and retrieve information generated by the Memre learning engine.

For example, in the case of quizzes, you make an API call each time a user answers a quiz question and the result (i.e., did they get it right, did they get it completely wrong, and did they get it wrong but close to the right answer). The Memre learning engine takes that information, combines it with anonymous, aggregate user data about that same quiz question, and returns information useful for optimizing learning.

### What Do You Need To Do To Integrate?

To build an example like that described, you’ll need to ensure that our system has corresponding records for each user and each concept. These can be created through the Creating a User and Importing Content APIs. For each user and concept (quiz question) created in our system, you’ll get a corresponding ID returned that you can store in your database and use for future API calls. When you send us a completed quiz question for a user, you’ll include their ID and the concept ID in the API call. The Memre learning engine does the rest.

### General API Notes

Our API follows the [JSON API](http://jsonapi.org/) standard. All endpoints follow standard RESTful practices and start with the URL https://partners.cerego.com/v3/. Most endpoints will require you to pass in your partner account ID. This is a value which we will provide you.
